So at this point,
I'd like to do a quick demo of how you create scripts
that run in both of these environments.
So,
I'll start off by doing a run-through of the tests for the application that
we already have to demonstrate some built-in npm scripts.
So, first, oops,
I'm going to pull down all those tasty bug fixes
that you guys worked so hard on.
And now if I come back out here,
let's move this back down to a single column and see
if we can blow it up a little bit.
Oh wait, not that one, this one.
Alright, so the ones that we have in our project right now are the npm start,
which executes our server process, then we also have this guy,
npm test,
which is another one of those conventional bits that npm knows to execute.
And in this case, we're setting the current Node environment to test,
which is going to change our application's configuration a little bit.
Mostly I think it just hits the test database rather than the development one.
It's going to run a command called mocha, which is a testing framework for Node.
js, and it's going to run all of the tests in this test directory.
Now if we go out to the terminal here and execute mocha,
we can see that the mocha command isn't found,
like it isn't installed globally, it's not on the system path,
but if I run npm test, --- No!
What's that?
Server model is db.
So I have a problem with my --- problem with the test.
Clearly I haven't run them enough lately.
Going to have to fix that.
But what did happen is the mocha command was run being passed this argument.
So, the npm scripts, in addition to whatever is on the system path normally,
will also look another place for binary commands.
So if I look in the node_modules directory, there's this subdirectory called.
bin,
and that contains all of the potential command line functions
that were installed by any of my local packages.
So here is that mocha command which will invoke the test
harness which I clearly have to fix.
So,
a npm script is a way that you can run a script using a locally installed
Node module so that somebody who wants to run that task doesn't have to
install your command line utility globally,
which is kind of gross.
All they have to do is clone your repository,
run npm whatever,
and all of the command line utilities that are necessary to execute
those scripts will automatically be added to the path,
but not pollute the global system path.
So that's the primary benefit of using the npm scripts.
So in addition to these scripts in the package.
json, we have the ability to create Grunt tasks.
Now the sort of conventional location for
configuration of Grunt is in a Gruntfile.
js at the root directory of your application,
and within this directory when the grunt command is executed will load up
different tasks that our Grunt task runner can perform.
So we have browserify and sass targets, which we'll talk about tomorrow,
but we also have a couple of bits that we've already been using,
which is this watch and nodemon command.
So, watch is a third-party module that's available for Grunt,
and you can say that --- you can basically specify different targets
within this that will watch this set of files.
So in this case, if any of our browser JavaScript changes,
we'll execute the browserify task.
And in this case, if any of our Sass files changes,
we will execute the sass:dev task.
We also have the nodemon task, and nodemon,
even if you install it globally standalone,
it's a really useful utility for monitoring a Node process.
And if JavaScript files change within the directory that Node process was run,
you can automatically restart that Node process.
So it's a very handy development tool that will I'm sure
be in your belt if it isn't already, but there's also a Grunt plugin for it.
So in this case, we pass in the script that we would like to execute,
and then by default nodemon will monitor the entire current
directory for changes to JavaScript files.
But in this case, we told it to ignore the node_modules folder,
so we don't care about any changes to the dependencies.
We ignore the public folder,
which is where Grunt will put our compiled static assets.
And then we also ignore any browser-specific JavaScript because
that's not going to impact server code at all.
And then down here at the bottom, we have this concurrent task,
which is again another third-party plugin which will run these two tasks,
nodemon and watch,
concurrently so that we can both recompile our static
assets and watch our server-side code for changes at the
same time when we run this task.
Because otherwise, unless a task returns something,
Grunt won't move on to the next task.
So in this case, if we want both of these tasks to execute concurrently,
we have to use this special module to make them run at the same time.
And then down here is where we actually configure Grunt
to load in those third-party tasks, so we have grunt-sass and browserify,
we also have watch, and nodemon, and concurrent,
and then we also have shell,
which just executes shell commands which is a fairly simple bit to do.
And then we --- the default command is what happens when
you just run Grunt with no arguments.
And in our case,
what we want to do is first we want to compile --- like this is like essentially
the way that we provided to run our development web server.
So what we're going to do first is we're going to compile a
development version of our style sheets,
we're going to run our JavaScripts through Browserify,
and then we're going to start up both our watch and our nodemon tasks so that we
can continually recompile and rerun our Node app as we run.
And we also have some custom tasks, which are just collections of other tasks.
So this collect_static task,
which you had to run eventually to get your local
development environment to work, runs, and init_static task,
which we'll look at in a second, and then it runs the sass task,
but it's for dist rather than dev,
which will actually minify the output at CSS as well,
and then we have the browserify task there as well.
And this init_static task, if you're paying very,
very close attention,
you might notice has not been defined anywhere in our Gruntfile.
That's because it's a custom task that we wrote.
So what we can do is tell Grunt to look for more tasks
in another directory that we specify.
So in this case,
we're going to say that our custom tasks are going to be
located potentially in our bin/tasks directory.
So if we expand that, we can see that we have this custom Grunt task here.
The exports for a function here, it got a little sloppy.
I forgot my const up at the top there for my module requires.
Apologies there.
But we have a custom task here, so we call registerTask,
init_static,
we include a basic description of that task in case anybody runs grunt help,
and then we have the actual function which executes,
which is going to destroy the public directory if it already exists,
recreate it, copy over the static,
like the unmodified static assets from our src directory,
and then copy those over as a part of that task.
So, you can do any kind of functionality this way.
For instance, like we in our workshop,
we're going to being using the Elastic Beanstalk
command line utility directly to deploy,
but for our application we have Grunt tasks that manage lots of
different parts of the deploy process for us using the AWS,
SDK for Node, and sometimes the Elastic Beanstalk command line utility directly.
So using --- so that's one of the things I like about Grunt is
just a general purpose task runner for Node code,
so we use it for all kinds of stuff as a result there.
Any questions on npm scripts or Grunt tasks?
Yeah, question go ahead.
Question, when you do the grunt load npm tasks --- Oh yeah, let me go there.
--- does it automatically include all the grunt-sass,
grunt-broswerify things when you do a grunt without any parameters?
So when you do a grunt without any parameters,
what's going to happen is Grunt is going to look for a task called default.
And in this case, I specified the default task to be like these other tasks,
like the sass task, the browserify task,
and the concurrent tasks.
And the way that Grunt acquires those abilities is
through these lines of code here.
We register these additional task types from npm.
Like we've installed a grunt-sass plugin and a grunt-browserify plugin.
And in the initConfig,
which is this --- which is usually the first part of a Gruntfile that you see,
this is where we configure all of those plugins.
So here's configuration for browserify, for sass,
for watch, nodemon, and the rest of them.
So after you type grunt, look for that default task.
Then it executes this list of tasks,
which it knows how to do because we loaded those tasks from npm here
and configured how they should operate up here.
A few people are asking for your slides.
Yeah, sure thing.
I can --- I'll just like create a PDF and maybe check it into the GitHub repo.
Perfect.
So we'll do that as soon as we can after we break down here.
Other questions before we move on, on the Grunt or npm stuff?
Is there a good online resource for finding the different available Grunt
modules that are npm modules that we might want to include?
The Grunt site does have a number of them that you might find interesting.
Also, the npm package registry.
So if you go the npmjs.
org and just search for grunt,
there's --- you can kind of search for the kind of stuff you're looking for.
That's not going to probably lend too much,
but like let's say I want to find like grunt webpack,
like this is what you would use if you wanted to do webpack
stuff from the context of your Gruntfile.
So like usually if you search for like grunt whatever,
that's one of the reasons why I still use it,
if I search for grunt whatever,
there's like a 90% chance I find something that kind of does what I need to do.
Grunt website has a plugin search that will --- I
think it just goes over npm as well.
Yeah, Yeah.
And you don't have to type grunt.
Exactly.
Even better.
Some people are saying that they sent your PR to fix the tests.
Oh nice, nice.
Appreciate that.
I'll go take a look after we get working. I bet I'll be able to merge it down right away.